# Project: Data Lake

S3 hosted data lake and Spark ETL pipeline for song and user activity for a music streaming app.

## Introduction

A startup called Sparkify wants to move their data warehouse to a data lake. Their data resides in S3, in a directory of JSON logs on user activity on the app, as well as a directory with JSON metadata on the songs in their app.

The purpose of this project is to build an ETL pipeline that extracts their data from S3, processes them using Spark, and loads the data back into S3 as a set of dimensional tables. This will allow their analytics team to continue finding insights in what songs their users are listening to. To accomplish this, I will load data from S3, process the data into analytics tables using Spark, and load them back into S3. The Spark process will be deployed on a cluster using AWS.

## Database Design

There are two datasets that reside in S3:

### Song Dataset

The song dataset is a subset of real data from the Million Song Dataset. Each file is in JSON format and contains metadata about a song and the artist of that song. The files are partitioned by the first three letters of each song's track ID.

### Log Dataset

The log dataset consists of log files in JSON format generated by this event simulator based on the songs in the dataset above. These simulate app activity logs from an imaginary music streaming app based on configuration settings. The log files in this dataset are partitioned by year and month.

## Instructions

It is required to set up your own IAM role, IAM user, and S3 bucket in AWS. Once this is complete, fill out the required information in <code>dl.cfg</code> (AWS credentials).

Next, run the script </code>etl.py</code> which will process the entire dataset using Spark.